Other fun things to do is to
poke around at the zlib module,
which is also part of Node core, so
you get this when you do require zlib.
And there's all kinds of methods for
doing inflate and
deflate, which are used in HTTP
servers or, I guess, yeah.
So I guess createUnzip can
sort of automatically detect
whether it's inflate or gzip.
But what we can do right here is to use
createGunzip to unzip
something on the fly.
And maybe we could take the hash
of it after that, I don't know,
something fun like that.
And we can verify that our program
works like we would expect by using
the command line alternatives
to doing that in Node core.
So from day1, we had this file,
I guess I deleted it,
but we had a file that was gzipped.
I'll just make one really quick.
So do gzip from standard in,
from file hello.txt,
and then hello.txt.gz, there we go.
Just to verify that it has
the correct output, there we go.
If I cat it, it's gonna look real nasty,
there we go, it's some binary garbage.
So we can write a note
program now called gunzip.js
that uses zlib.createGunzip
to decompress that input.
So I like to take standard in,
you can of course use fs.createReadStream
if you wanna read from a particular file.
But this is a nice flexible
way to do it as well.
And we can pipe that to standard out.
So this is pretty much what the gunzip
utility on the command line can do,
although that one's faster, but this
one is JavaScript, so that's nice, too.
So if we take our file hello.txt.gz,
we get the plaintext version,
which is very handy.
Let's go ahead and add a hash as well,
why not, to our little pipeline,
I think that'd be fun.
So we'll load createHash from,
I guess for consistency,
I don't have to do zlib.createGunzip,
I could just createGunzip.
And then we'll require crypto.createHash.
And now we'll pipe into
createHash('sha512').
And now if I run this program, it should
first take the compressed gzip input,
it should decompress it, and
it should pipe it into streaming SHA 512.
And it should print out the,
I'll set it to hex encoding so
that we can look at it and verify on the
command line that the program is working
like we think it ought to,
okay, does this all make sense?
So again, standard in comes in,
it's a readable stream.
It goes into createGunzip,
and the compressed input turns
into uncompressed output.
Then we compute the SHA
512 hash of that input,
and then we print the resulting hash.
And all of these happens in
a streaming way, except for
at the very end because the hashing
algorithms have to buffer up the input.
But it's not like you're
consuming a lot of extra memory,
because the hash is done in place
with a fixed chunk of memory.
So if we run this program on
our compressed input now,
we should get the hash back
that should match the original.
So let me just run that a different way,
okay, so here's our hash.
And that should match up to the shasum for
512 of hello.txt, and it does.
And if we wanna do the same thing on the
command line that we just did in our Node
program, it would look
something like this.
So we could gunzip hello.txt.gz and
pipe that to shasum -a 512.
And we get back the same hash,
so any questions?
These are core streams that
are good to play around with,
good to practice, good to know about.
Comes up now and
then when you're building stuff.
I think it's really fun
way to build programs,
instead of just building these really
big and clunky, enterprisey things.
Just throw down some shell scripts,
throw down some little pipes and stuff.
So I'm gonna add, what was that
example called, gunzip.js as well.
And then maybe we can
take a little break so
people can play around
with these examples.
And if you have any questions,
be a good time.